>> Speaker 1: So I think we're
actually in good shape now for it,
if we can live with the browser's
ugly missing image icon.
I think we're actually
in pretty decent shape.
>> Speaker 1: And so hopefully if I press
Next, we might get a real image this time.
Ooh, what happened?
We're not quite where we wanna be.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH] I think it's that
I'm setting the loading style to visible,
when they are, I'm setting,
actually, visibility to hidden here.
I'm not sure why that's not going away,
let's see.
>> Speaker 1: I know why.
It's the order in which I subscribe,
possibly.
>> Speaker 1: Does anybody
see what's going on here?
I'm subscribing to actions after images,
and
it's possible I'm actually getting
the images [LAUGH] after the actions,
but that's another good
thing to talk about here.
So I'm gonna reverse this just to
make sure that that's the issue, but
then we'll talk about a more robust
way of making that work correctly.
>> Speaker 2: Quick question.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: In your
preload images function,
you have the image, img, right?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: But also at the top of
your script, don't you have another one?
>> Speaker 1: Where?
I see what you're saying here.
I don't think that's the problem,
because this should mask the global scope,
but that's a totally valid observation.
I'm pretty sure that's not-
>> Speaker 2: Lexical scope, are they not?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah, so
I'm pretty sure that's not the problem.
I'd be suspicious, too, but the fact
that it's defined more at lexical scope,
then I'm not gonna be able to hit the one
in the global object, but we can try it.
Who knows, weirder things have happened.
But let's come back to that one, and just
make sure we get the, why don't we try and
just make sure we get this example
working and then we can come back and
try the preload image.
>> Speaker 2: Sure.
>> Speaker 1: So I think,
let me remove these annoying debuggers.
>> Speaker 1: All right.
So, we have an image viewer.
Well, actually I don't
know if back will work.
Okay.
It seems to be working,
it seems to be working.
What if I switch to this?
>> Speaker 1: Well, okay,
got a few broken images in there, but.
>> Speaker 2: What if you refresh and
press back?
>> Speaker 1: Refresh and press back.
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Speaker 1: As in?
>> Speaker 2: Index negative 1, yep.
>> Speaker 1: You mean like?
>> Speaker 2: Refresh the page.
>> Speaker 1: Reload.
>> Speaker 2: And
now press the back button.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, that's a good point,
what's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 2: Exception.
>> Speaker 1: Well, technically,
I think it's actually a, it's working,
it's just a broken,
cuz we're not doing the preloading status,
it's just a broken image, but
it's gonna go off the end of the array.
So we don't want that, but I think there's
also a more serious problem than that,
which is, if I go to cute, and
I go next, next, next, next,
next, and I switch to pics,
what index am I gonna be at?
>> Speaker 2: Whatever
index you're in that time.
>> Speaker 1: Sure, I'm not actually
sure that's true, but let's find out.
So it's a thing to be worried about,
right?
We probably wanna restart index at zero.
Let's find out if we are actually
gonna restart at index zero.
What's our intuition here?
Where is it?
I lost the code.
It's so small I lost it.
There we go.
That's pretty good.
Are we actually gonna restart?
Are we gonna be at the same index we were,
knowing that indices is defined up here?
>> Speaker 1: Sorry, bear with me.
>> Speaker 1: All right, preloadImage,
syntax highlighting is broken there but.
>> Speaker 1: Does everybody see that?
What do we think?
Am I gonna be at index zero,
one, two, what am I gonna be at?
>> Speaker 2: When you switch the sub?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, when I switch the sub.
>> Speaker 2: I'm assuming you'd
be at whatever indice you left at?
>> Speaker 1: Still be at whatever
indice I'd be left at, interesting.
Everybody agree with that?
>> Speaker 1: Let's say I
subscribe once to indices.
I'm gonna start out with a zero, right?
And then if somebody hits left, right,
left, right, left, right, left,
right, or right 15 times, and
then I resubscribe the indices, what's the
first thing that's gonna hop out of there?
>> Speaker 2: Still be zero?
>> Speaker 1: It'll be zero.
>> Speaker 2: Did each of
the subs subscribe idices so
that your subs are gonna maintain
the indice that you are on?
>> Speaker 1: Because we return
these indices observable, right?
And then each one, everytime a new sub
comes along, and then somebody comes
along and subscribes the indices again
Because indices is gonna be lazy,
every single subscription is gonna
start its own counter at zero.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: When you click from cute
to pics back to cute you're on the same
indice you left cute on, right?
>> Speaker 1: No actually.
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Speaker 1: I'd start back at zero.
>> Speaker 2: Start back at zero again?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
If we wanted that behavior we
could do something about it, but
this goes back to why we started by
implementing observable bottom up.
It's if we were to go and implement
scan right now, the first accumulator,
if somebody subscribed we'd just
on next them that value, but
then the next person who subscribes we're
going to on next them zero all over again.
Every subscription gets its own counter,
and so
that's why we're actually gonna
start from zero every time.
Cool?
Is there,
now we did go off the end of the array.
Let's see if we can do better.
How do I avoid going off
the end of the array?
>> Speaker 1: Should I index suggest?
>> Speaker 2: You do a check.
You're gonna have to do-
>> Speaker 1: I could check?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: To see if it-
>> Speaker 1: Well this is a PM question,
how do we want the application to behave?
>> Speaker 2: You've gotta
do it on the indices, right,
because if you do it in the subs sure
you're never gonna load the wrong image,
but your indices are still gonna
moving in the wrong direction.
>> Speaker 1: Well, on the right index
the right bounds for the index depends on
the size of this images array, which
is different for different subs, right?
So we can do the simple thing, which is
to just filter out invalid indices, so
if somebody hits back on zero, and we see
negative one, we can just filter it out.
In other words, back would basically
stop working when you got to the edge.
I'm fine for that for a first pass.
We're not gonna ship this at
the end of the class, but
we can also try I think the behavior that
a lot of us would find more intuitive,
which is the old wraparound.
So do we wanna start by just
filtering out invalid indices?
How are we gonna do it?
>> Speaker 2: Just do a filter for
indices less than zero.
>> Speaker 1: What else is invalid?
>> Speaker 2: Greater than the length.
>> Speaker 2: Equal to the length,
equal or greater than.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, I think it's actually
we wanna go the other way, right?
>> Speaker 1: Cool, now we shouldn't
go off the edge anymore, and
you guys can probably figure
out how we'd do the wraparound.
It involves math.
Nobody likes that, but
it's pretty straightforward.
>> Speaker 1: So it's too bad we couldn't
get the preload image working, but
I think you guys saw
how that is structured.
We just keep going another map, we create
another level, and then we switch back,
and so if every single time we increase
the dimensionality of the observable,
we apply switch to it, we know we've
never gotten the erased edition.
So if somebody hits next, next,
next, we're not gonna be in
preloading five images, and
then the fastest image to preload wins,
not the last image bay selected.
So does that make sense, guys?
So that was the last exercise I had for
today.
We built ourselves a litter
Reddit image viewer.
I was gonna open it up for some questions,
because we've got about half an hour left.
Was there anything actually we wanted
to learn about that we didn't get
a chance, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Can we just try
the preloader again, but just change the-
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Name of the img variable?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, let's try it.
Let's rule that one out.
>> Speaker 2: I think it was
trying to use that, the dom img.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, absolutely.
At the very least,
we can put this back, put it back in.
>> Speaker 2: In the chat it seems
like they figured something out.
>> Speaker 2: They didn't post the code,
but.
>> Speaker 2: If you could
post the code that would help.
>> Speaker 1: Source after on error.
I don't think you set the source, so
it's a totally reasonable question,
which is should you set
the source after the on air, and
isn't that a problem after
attaching the variable?
I don't believe that's a problem,
because in JavaScript we don't give up
control of the thread until our block
of code has finished executing.
So newing up the image and
setting it in the constructor,
it's not gonna suddenly erase and
then try and fire on air.
The one question I have is, does it
actually go in the constructor, and
you know what?
That might be what's going on here.
I think I passed it in the constructor
instead of assigning it to the source
properties.
So let's try that now.
>> Speaker 1: See that?
I put it under constructor.
>> Speaker 1: Now it's
interesting to note that,
have I created a hot observable here?
Notice that I'm doing work before
someone subscribes to this observable.
Remember when we re-ordered that initial
function and map, I think it was map,
or it was set time out where we
kicked off the set time out and
then we returned the observable?
The danger there is that somebody's going
to subscribe that observable too late and
they're going to miss the time out.
And that is technically, in practice
it's not really gonna happen here, but
there is, it's worth noting that this
is generally something you want to
avoid doing, cuz I've created erace here.
In practice, we're gonna subscribe to this
observable immediately, so we're not gonna
miss the message, but in general, this is
a bad idea, and if I subscribe to this
same observable five times, I'm not gonna
try and preload the image five times also.
You notice that, right?
That's not gonna behave that way.
Maybe I want that,
maybe I don't want that.
I probably don't want that in this case,
but
in general, you should be very
careful if you're kicking off work and
then returning an observable, because if
that work is gonna cause the observable to
fire, you've created a race,
you've created an observable that's hot.
How do we make sure that all of this work,
that the work that actually happens to
kick off the work behind the observable,
fires every single time
somebody calls subscribe on it?
>> Speaker 1: Well, we could write
our own definition of subscribe,
like make our own observable
like we did before, but
there's actually a function that
allows us to encapsulate this pattern
of waiting until subscribe is called to do
the work associated with that observable,
and it's very simple, it's called
Observable.defer, because we defer work.
So instead of doing this
work as soon as the function
starts,
>> Speaker 1: You can call defer and
pass in a function, and
the contents of this function is gonna run
every single time subscribe is called.
So this is almost like defining our own
subscribe, it's just a little bit simpler.
The difference is, when this function
runs, we're gonna do all this work,
set all this stuff up every
single time subscribe is called.
It's only that this is gonna
run when subscribe is called.
The last thing you do is you
actually return the observable and
then defer subscribe to that observable.
So it's sort of like taking an observable
and instead making an observable factory.
It still looks like an observable
from the outside, but inside,
whenever you subscribe to it, it's
creating a new observable internally, and
then forwarding your subscription to that.
Does that make sense?
So it's kind of like an easier solution
than writing our own subscribe function.
It's simpler, we just sort of do
a bunch of initialization work,
and then we return an observable, and
that happens on every subscription,
not on every call to preLoadImage.
So in this case, this would be
the fastidious way of solving this problem
that makes sure we don't have any erases.
We're not gonna even begin to preload
until somebody calls subscribe.
Is that clear how that works?
Right?
Is it clear why if we would've begun
the work of preloading before subscribe
was called on observable before, and
now that's not the case anymore,
because of the way defer works?
It defers the work of
setting up a subscription
until subscribe is called
on the observable.
So now we've made an observable without
any raciness associated with it, and
I think this time I'm feeling good about
it, I think we're gonna get it working.
So let's put back in
our preload code here.
>> Speaker 1: So my goal is to hopefully
get the entire solution of this problem,
at least the main
solution of this problem,
on one very high font sized screen.
So let's see if we can make that work.
So here I'm gonna map over.
Remember over here,
this smaller sub observable here
are all of the images coming out.
This is this a flat stream of URLs.
So we're gonna map over it, and
we're gonna call preLoadImage(url),
and we can just be clever and
just shorten that to preLoadImage.
And we're also gonna switch,
right, because [LAUGH] switch, for
the reason we said, which is if somebody
hits next for the next five times,
and we begin preloading five images,
we want the last image that they selected,
not the last image that happens
to preload, finish preloading,
or the first image, excuse me,
that happens to, or last image.
So I'm seeing some weird syntax coloring,
but I think that's
actually just a bug in Adam, because-
>> Speaker 2: It might be that last
print on 76.
>> Speaker 1: Maybe you're right, yes.
>> Speaker 2: I'm running
into the same thing on Adam.
>> Speaker 1: You are?
Interesting.
But you were right,
I think that last print on 76 was wrong.
>> Speaker 1: And all of this, we create
this observable of images that have been
preloaded, and are selected when
somebody moves their mouse for
every single time we get a new sub.
We begin this process again.
So fingers crossed, guys.
>> Speaker 1: Do I have
a debugger statement open here?
>> Speaker 2: I think there's
an error in your console log.
>> Speaker 1: There is, thank you.
>> Speaker 1: Uh-oh.
>> Speaker 1: I probably
have an unopened comment.
>> Speaker 2: At the end of preload image.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, thank you.
>> Speaker 1: So we know that
the first time that, let's put the,
let's try out this fancy new
hotness from Chrome, shall we?
See if we get in there.
No.
So close.
Let's see if we actually
even got into preLoadImage.
>> Speaker 1: Nope.
I'm not sure what I did to change that,
but it feels like we should be in there.
>> Speaker 2: Keeping with the same
defer pattern in preload image,
could we try observable from promise,
and then use fetch,
and then catch the error,
and map that error, or
set off the error for
the loading error url?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, we totally, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: You just need
to move the parentheses.
>> Speaker 1: Did I just put
the parenthesis in the wrong place?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so go to, yep.
>> Speaker 1: Really,
it looks right to me, atually.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Where did you think?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz I had it on the inside.
The filter isn't working for me.
>> Speaker 1: Filter,
where index is larger or equal, so
that might explain why we're not getting
image, if the filter isn't working.
>> Speaker 1: Well, let's-
>> Speaker 2: I commented that it works.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: It sure seems like that's
the right filter case to me, but
let's come back to it.
This is all good,
cuz this is what you have to do when
you're writing a program with observable.
I was kind of hoping this would happen so
that we could step
through the debugging tools, and I'm also
particularly excited about that Chrome
break point inside of functions,
that's gonna make my life so much easier.
So let's just step through and
see if we get that image.
It looks like your story checks out here.
And we can get this big image.
So let's see what's screwed
up about our filter.
Do I have a wrong case in my filter here?
Meaning like,
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
I'm trying to filter an image.
You can't filter an image URL, right guys?
Let's move that up, cuz that's less dumb,
and now we're good.
Right, does everybody
see what I did wrong?
I mapped in the images
before I tried to filter it.
All right.
>> Speaker 1: I'm so confident I'm
just gonna close this debugger window.